## PostgreSQL 10.0 scram(Salted Challenge Response Authentication Mechanism) 客户端认证方法
                            
### 作者                                                                         
digoal                       
                              
### 日期                         
2017-03-08                     
                          
### 标签                       
PostgreSQL , 认证方法 , SCRAM-SHA-256 , scram    
                            
----                      
                               
## 背景      

https://git.postgresql.org/gitweb/?p=postgresql.git;a=commit;h=818fd4a67d610991757b610755e3065fb99d80a5

Support SCRAM-SHA-256 authentication (RFC 5802 and 7677).

This introduces a new generic SASL authentication method, similar to the
GSS and SSPI methods. The server first tells the client which SASL
authentication mechanism to use, and then the mechanism-specific SASL
messages are exchanged in AuthenticationSASLcontinue and PasswordMessage
messages. Only SCRAM-SHA-256 is supported at the moment, but this allows
adding more SASL mechanisms in the future, without changing the overall
protocol.

Support for channel binding, aka SCRAM-SHA-256-PLUS is left for later.

The SASLPrep algorithm, for pre-processing the password, is not yet
implemented. That could cause trouble, if you use a password with
non-ASCII characters, and a client library that does implement SASLprep.
That will hopefully be added later.

Authorization identities, as specified in the SCRAM-SHA-256 specification,
are ignored. SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION provides more or less the same
functionality, anyway.

If a user doesn't exist, perform a "mock" authentication, by constructing
an authentic-looking challenge on the fly. The challenge is derived from
a new system-wide random value, "mock authentication nonce", which is
created at initdb, and stored in the control file. We go through these
motions, in order to not give away the information on whether the user
exists, to unauthenticated users.

Bumps PG_CONTROL_VERSION, because of the new field in control file.

Patch by Michael Paquier and Heikki Linnakangas, reviewed at different
stages by Robert Haas, Stephen Frost, David Steele, Aleksander Alekseev,
and many others.

Discussion: https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/CAB7nPqRbR3GmFYdedCAhzukfKrgBLTLtMvENOmPrVWREsZkF8g%40mail.gmail.com
Discussion: https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/CAB7nPqSMXU35g%3DW9X74HVeQp0uvgJxvYOuA4A-A3M%2B0wfEBv-w%40mail.gmail.com
Discussion: https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/55192AFE.6080106@iki.fi



https://www.postgresql.org/docs/devel/static/auth-methods.html#auth-password

The password-based authentication methods are scram , md5 and password.

scram performs SCRAM-SHA-256 authentication, as described in RFC5802. It is a challenge-response scheme, that prevents password sniffing on untrusted connections. It is more secure than the md5 method, but might not be supported by older clients.

SCRAM认证方法，算法参考

https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5802


To begin with, the SCRAM client is in possession of a username and
   password (*) (or a ClientKey/ServerKey, or SaltedPassword).  It sends
   the username to the server, which retrieves the corresponding
   authentication information, i.e., a salt, StoredKey, ServerKey, and
   the iteration count i.  (Note that a server implementation may choose

to use the same iteration count for all accounts.)  The server sends
   the salt and the iteration count to the client, which then computes
   the following values and sends a ClientProof to the server:

     SaltedPassword  := Hi(Normalize(password), salt, i)
     ClientKey       := HMAC(SaltedPassword, "Client Key")
     StoredKey       := H(ClientKey)
     AuthMessage     := client-first-message-bare + "," +
                        server-first-message + "," +
                        client-final-message-without-proof
     ClientSignature := HMAC(StoredKey, AuthMessage)
     ClientProof     := ClientKey XOR ClientSignature
     ServerKey       := HMAC(SaltedPassword, "Server Key")
     ServerSignature := HMAC(ServerKey, AuthMessage)

   The server authenticates the client by computing the ClientSignature,
   exclusive-ORing that with the ClientProof to recover the ClientKey
   and verifying the correctness of the ClientKey by applying the hash
   function and comparing the result to the StoredKey.  If the ClientKey
   is correct, this proves that the client has access to the user's
   password.

   Similarly, the client authenticates the server by computing the
   ServerSignature and comparing it to the value sent by the server.  If
   the two are equal, it proves that the server had access to the user's
   ServerKey.

   The AuthMessage is computed by concatenating messages from the
   authentication exchange.  The format of these messages is defined in
   Section 7.


https://www.postgresql.org/docs/devel/static/catalog-pg-authid.html
pg_authid

Name|	Type|	Description
---|---|---
rolpassword|	text|	Password (possibly encrypted); null if none. The format depends on the form of encryption used.

If the password is encrypted with SCRAM-SHA-256, it consists of 5 fields separated by colons. 
The first field is the constant scram-sha-256, to identify the password as a SCRAM-SHA-256 verifier. 
The second field is a salt, Base64-encoded, 
and the third field is the number of iterations used to generate the password. 
The fourth field and fifth field are the stored key and server key, respectively, in hexadecimal format. 


pg_hba.conf

scram


算法代码
https://git.postgresql.org/gitweb/?p=postgresql.git;a=blob;f=src/backend/libpq/auth-scram.c;h=cc4e84403f9abd6baf64754d05ec4ea8b2e8430b;hb=818fd4a67d610991757b610755e3065fb99d80a5


消息格式


https://www.postgresql.org/docs/devel/static/protocol-flow.html

AuthenticationSASL
The frontend must now initiate a SASL negotiation, using the SASL mechanism specified in the message. The frontend will send a PasswordMessage with the first part of the SASL data stream in response to this. If further messages are needed, the server will respond with AuthenticationSASLContinue.

AuthenticationSASLContinue
This message contains the response data from the previous step of SASL negotiation (AuthenticationSASL, or a previous AuthenticationSASLContinue). If the SASL data in this message indicates more data is needed to complete the authentication, the frontend must send that data as another PasswordMessage. If SASL authentication is completed by this message, the server will next send AuthenticationOk to indicate successful authentication or ErrorResponse to indicate failure.


https://www.postgresql.org/docs/devel/static/protocol-message-formats.html


AuthenticationSASL (B)
Byte1('R')
Identifies the message as an authentication request.

Int32
Length of message contents in bytes, including self.

Int32(10)
Specifies that SASL authentication is started.

String
Name of a SASL authentication mechanism.

AuthenticationSASLContinue (B)

Byte1('R')
Identifies the message as an authentication request.

Int32
Length of message contents in bytes, including self.

Int32(11)
Specifies that this message contains SASL-mechanism specific data.

Byten
SASL data, specific to the SASL mechanism being used.

postgresql.conf 配置

#password_encryption = md5     # md5, scram or plain



wget https://ftp.postgresql.org/pub/snapshot/dev/postgresql-snapshot.tar.bz2



vi postgresql.conf

port=1922
unix_socket_directories = '.'
log_destination = 'csvlog'
#password_encryption = md5              # md5, scram or plain

vi pg_hba.conf

host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            scram



psql -h $PGDATA -p 1922 -U postgres postgres

postgres=# create role digoal01 encrypted password 'digoal' login;
CREATE ROLE
postgres=# set password_encryption =scram;
SET
postgres=# create role digoal02 encrypted password 'digoal' login;
CREATE ROLE

postgres=# select rolname,rolpassword from pg_authid;
      rolname      |                                                                              rolpassword   
-------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 digoal01          | md59f88b70376618eb719e58f630eee13ad
 digoal02          | scram-sha-256:wEroBV0GNfOIZw==:4096:6149c711825bfc6b0c0e61f3cee1341b8eeab770f784fe670af133a70d6a7cdf:1ca9859b95eb138c0606bfb59414e70eec83a3d05ef3c9bfa7e76353e9032e52

  -> psql -h 127.0.0.1 -p 1922 -U digoal01 postgres
Password for user digoal01: 
psql: error received from server in SASL exchange: invalid-proof
  -> psql -h 127.0.0.1 -p 1922 -U digoal02 postgres
Password for user digoal02: 
psql (10devel)
Type "help" for help.

postgres=> 


vi pg_hba.conf
host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            md5

pg_ctl reload

  -> psql -h 127.0.0.1 -p 1922 -U digoal01 postgres
Password for user digoal01: 
psql (10devel)
Type "help" for help.

postgres=> \q
  -> psql -h 127.0.0.1 -p 1922 -U digoal02 postgres
Password for user digoal02: 
psql: FATAL:  password authentication failed for user "digoal02"




