## PostgreSQL cube 插件 - 空间  
                                                                    
### 作者                                                                       
digoal                                                               
                                                                
### 日期                                                                                                                                   
2017-09-02                                                              
                                                                   
### 标签                                                                
PostgreSQL , cube , GiST索引 , 多维 , 欧几里得      
                                                                                                                                      
----                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                         
## 背景  
CUBE是一个多维数据类型，支持两种多维类型：多维POINT、区间（左下+右上）。以及这些几何对象的几何特性搜索和计算（方位搜索、距离计算），这些搜索都支持GiST索引。  
  
我们可以将多个字段合并成多维POINT，实现对大量数据的高效空间聚集、空间计算。  
  
## 语法  
  
External| Syntax	Meaning  
---|---  
x|	点，A one-dimensional point (or, zero-length one-dimensional interval)  
(x)|	Same as above  
x1,x2,...,xn|	点，A point in n-dimensional space, represented internally as a zero-volume cube  
(x1,x2,...,xn)|	Same as above  
(x),(y)|	一维区间（线段）（两个括号隔开，分别表示每个维度的最小值(左括号)和最大值(右括号)），A one-dimensional interval starting at x and ending at y or vice versa; the order does not matter  
[(x),(y)]|	Same as above  
(x1,...,xn),(y1,...,yn)|	多维区间（平面方形、立方体、多维CUBE）（两个括号隔开，分别表示每个维度的最小值(左括号)和最大值(右括号)）An n-dimensional cube represented by a pair of its diagonally opposite corners  
[(x1,...,xn),(y1,...,yn)]|	Same as above  
  
## 操作符  
Operator|	Result|	Description  
---|---|---  
a = b|	boolean|	The cubes a and b are identical.  
a && b|	boolean|	The cubes a and b overlap.  
a @> b|	boolean|	The cube a contains the cube b.  
a <@ b|	boolean|	The cube a is contained in the cube b.  
a < b|	boolean|	The cube a is less than the cube b.  
a <= b|	boolean|	The cube a is less than or equal to the cube b.  
a > b|	boolean|	The cube a is greater than the cube b.  
a >= b|	boolean|	The cube a is greater than or equal to the cube b.  
a <> b|	boolean|	The cube a is not equal to the cube b.  
a -> n|	float8|	Get n-th coordinate(坐标) of cube (counting from 1).  
a ~> n|	float8|	Get n-th coordinate in “normalized” cube representation, in which the coordinates have been rearranged into the form “lower left — upper right”; that is, the smaller endpoint along each dimension appears first.  
a <-> b|	float8|	欧几里得距离。Euclidean distance between a and b.   
a <#> b|	float8|	分别每个坐标的距离，求和。Taxicab (L-1 metric) distance between a and b.    
a <=> b|	float8|	分别每个坐标的距离，取最大值。Chebyshev (L-inf metric) distance between a and b.  
  
## 函数  
  
Function|	Result|	Description|	Example  
---|---|---|---  
cube(float8)|	cube|	Makes a one dimensional cube with both coordinates the same.|	cube(1) == '(1)'  
cube(float8, float8)|	cube|	Makes a one dimensional cube.|	cube(1,2) == '(1),(2)'  
cube(float8[])|	cube|	Makes a zero-volume cube using the coordinates defined by the array.|	cube(ARRAY[1,2]) == '(1,2)'  
cube(float8[], float8[])|	cube|	Makes a cube with upper right and lower left coordinates as defined by the two arrays, which must be of the same length.|	cube(ARRAY[1,2], ARRAY[3,4]) == '(1,2),(3,4)'  
cube(cube, float8)|	cube|	Makes a new cube by adding a dimension on to an existing cube, with the same values for both endpoints of the new coordinate. This is useful for building cubes piece by piece from calculated values.|	cube('(1,2),(3,4)'::cube, 5) == '(1,2,5),(3,4,5)'  
cube(cube, float8, float8)|	cube|	Makes a new cube by adding a dimension on to an existing cube. This is useful for building cubes piece by piece from calculated values.|	cube('(1,2),(3,4)'::cube, 5, 6) == '(1,2,5),(3,4,6)'  
cube_dim(cube)|	integer|	Returns the number of dimensions of the cube.|	cube_dim('(1,2),(3,4)') == '2'  
cube_ll_coord(cube, integer)|	float8|	Returns the n-th coordinate value for the lower left corner of the cube.|	cube_ll_coord('(1,2),(3,4)', 2) == '2'  
cube_ur_coord(cube, integer)|	float8|	Returns the n-th coordinate value for the upper right corner of the cube.|	cube_ur_coord('(1,2),(3,4)', 2) == '4'  
cube_is_point(cube)|	boolean|	Returns true if the cube is a point, that is, the two defining corners are the same.|	-  
cube_distance(cube, cube)|	float8|	Returns the distance between two cubes. If both cubes are points, this is the normal distance function.|	-  
cube_subset(cube, integer[])|	cube|	Makes a new cube from an existing cube, using a list of dimension indexes from an array. Can be used to extract the endpoints of a single dimension, or to drop dimensions, or to reorder them as desired.|	cube_subset(cube('(1,3,5),(6,7,8)'), ARRAY[2]) == '(3),(7)' cube_subset(cube('(1,3,5),(6,7,8)'), ARRAY[3,2,1,1]) == '(5,3,1,1),(8,7,6,6)'  
cube_union(cube, cube)|	cube|	Produces the union of two cubes.| -	  
cube_inter(cube, cube)|	cube|	Produces the intersection of two cubes.	| -  
cube_enlarge(c cube, r double, n integer)|	cube|	Increases the size of the cube by the specified radius r in at least n dimensions. If the radius is negative the cube is shrunk instead. All defined dimensions are changed by the radius r. Lower-left coordinates are decreased by r and upper-right coordinates are increased by r. If a lower-left coordinate is increased to more than the corresponding upper-right coordinate (this can only happen when r < 0) than both coordinates are set to their average. If n is greater than the number of defined dimensions and the cube is being enlarged (r > 0), then extra dimensions are added to make n altogether; 0 is used as the initial value for the extra coordinates. This function is useful for creating bounding boxes around a point for searching for nearby points.|	cube_enlarge('(1,2),(3,4)', 0.5, 3) == '(0.5,1.5,-0.5),(3.5,4.5,0.5)'  
  
## 例子  
  
1、向量聚合（类似多维聚集）  
  
https://github.com/umitanuki/kmeans-postgresql  
  
2、4维（包含）的聚集分析  
  
http://postgis.net/docs/manual-2.3/ST_ClusterKMeans.html  
  
3、求多维点的距离  
  
```  
欧几里得距离。  
  
postgres=# select '(1,2,3,4)'::cube <-> '(2,2,3,10)'::cube ;  
     ?column?       
------------------  
 6.08276253029822  
(1 row)  
  
分别每个坐标的距离，取最大值。  
  
postgres=# select '(1,2,3,4)'::cube <=> '(2,2,3,10)'::cube ;  
 ?column?   
----------  
        6  
(1 row)  
  
分别每个坐标的距离，求和。  
  
postgres=# select '(1,2,3,4)'::cube <#> '(2,2,3,10)'::cube ;  
 ?column?   
----------  
        7  
(1 row)  
```  
  
4、按距离排序，输出附近的多维点。  
  
```  
SELECT c FROM test ORDER BY c <-> cube(array[0.5,0.5,0.5]) LIMIT 1;  
```  
  
5、某个表有多个数值类型字段，基于这几个字段构建CUBE，创建gist索引。将来可以根据这个按距离高速检索附近的多维点（记录）。  
  
```  
postgres=# create index idx on tbl_tmp using gist (cube(array[c1,c3,c4,c5]));  
```  
  
## 参考  
https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/static/cube.html  
  
http://postgis.net/docs/manual-2.3/ST_ClusterKMeans.html  
  
https://github.com/umitanuki/kmeans-postgresql  
